hi you guys what is up welcome back to
my channel today we are talking about
how to lose fat as a petite or short
women and in case you're new here when I
say petite petite comes in all shapes
and sizes but I'm really referring to is
your height so if you're 5 foot 4 inch
shorter or you just identify with being
a short petite woman and you're trying
to lose fat then this video is for you
so it actually just did a really similar
video inside my free Facebook group
called the short for getting community
if you haven't joined that ever are you
are curious about it I'll drop the link
below totally free community I do live
trainings in there and just a great way
to meet other and connect with other
petite women who are interested in their
health and fitness and and their
wellness journey as well so today's
video is all about taking your
metabolism into high gear as a petite
woman which is the key to fat loss for
us because petite women have slightly
slower metabolisms which I say all the
time but maybe we need to hear it again
we have slightly slower metabolisms if
you are petite or short and you've ever
gone like type to the internet total
daily energy expenditure a calculator or
a calorie calculator and you input all
your stuff and by the way you probably
notice that height was one of the
indicators one of the factors that you
had to input you probably got back a
number something like 1200 calories and
that's how many calories you have to eat
or eat less than to lose weight if this
has happened to you please tell me about
your experience in the comments if you
have clicked on a calorie calorie
calculator and has given you this
information back let me know because it
is complete bogus we do not need to eat
that few calories in a day to see
progress in in to lose fat yes you do
need to be in a calorie deficit but your
metabolism is dynamic and you can work
on increasing that threshold that
caloric threshold is the number of
you can eat in a day you can increase
that so that you don't have to diet
constantly you don't have to be starving
in order to reach your goals it's the
exact same way that I'm able to eat
2,000 calories in a day while still
losing fat still building lean muscle
and working on my goals because I have
spent the time putting that lean muscle
on raising my metabolism up and being so
that I can be able to eat as many
calories in a day so before we get
started I just want you to know you're
not alone this is very common experience
for us petites and I'm here to kind of
debunk that myth that you absolutely
need to eat that few calories in a day
to lose fat in fact if you do eat that
many calories in a day that low you'll
probably notice fat gain because it is a
very stressful state to put your body in
probably have high cortisol levels your
metabolism is going to slow down and if
this has happened to you from diving
before as a petite woman also let me
know in the comments because these are
really interesting phenomenon occur even
though the media and you know magazines
and our friends always tell us to do it
this way well guess what they're taller
and it actually works a little bit
different for us seeing as we already
have a low caloric threshold okay so
let's just get into it
fat loss her petite step one is your
fitness of course if you've looked at
the energy balance equation before
you've noticed that your calories in
matter and that can be in the form of
your food your nutrition your intake and
the calories out of matter which is
usually in the form of your exercise how
you're burning calories how fast your
metabolism is so the two things that we
have to work with that we have control
over our fitness and our nutrition let's
start with our fitness routine sometimes
petite women ask me is it possible to
lose fat without going to the gym can I
just do it through nutrition the answer
is yes you can however if you are
looking for a toned look meaning a
little bit muscular but like lean and
cut and not you know not stocky but just
if you're looking to be toned you are
not going to be able to get that
appearance that look without going to
the gym and working on building muscle
because that look comes from muscle and
fat loss together also known as a body
view composition
so if that isn't a priority for you if
you just want to lose a little bit of
fat you could do it alone through
nutrition but I would recommend doing
the fitness as well as the nutrition
just to kind of give you a holistic
lifestyle and help keep your results
sustainable and it's just fun or if you
can kind of have both elements working
in your favor that said the fitness
element is really important for petite
women especially because if you just do
nutrition alone and you don't get the
muscle as a petite woman you're missing
a very very very very big important
opportunity which is muscle increases
the speed of your metabolism the more
muscle you have the faster your
metabolism is the more calories you burn
at rest when you're not at the gym
meaning if you have a higher metabolism
faster metabolism you won't have to
spend as much time at the gym working
out which is ideal right so you can
increase your metabolism by putting on
muscle in the gym and I don't mean like
huge like massive biceps you know huge
muscles and have it look stocky and
ridiculous no I just mean once you start
lifting weight you will naturally
increase your metabolism because you
will increase your muscle tone and that
alone is a really really important
element of the petite metabolism and
getting it up and going so my first tip
is if you have not lifted weights yet to
try lifting weights about four or five
times a week you can probably start with
four if you haven't done it before and
get acquainted with that start to start
to just get introduced to that world I
have a free guide on lifting guide if
you're interested I'll drop that below
as well it teaches you how to lift
weights there's HD videos it's really
great so the first step is lift weights
so that you can gain some muscle and get
that metabolism up step two let's talk
about cardio and I'm gonna bring it up
because I don't want you guys to do too
much cardio as petite women a lot of
times if you just were to go on YouTube
and type in how to lose fat it would
tell you to do cardio but as a petite
woman again
circumstances and tablets are slower so
let's talk about what you should do when
it comes to your cardio regimen if
you're getting on the treadmill suddenly
and you have not done cardio
consistently for a while and you just
hop on the on the treadmill and you
decide I'm going to walk for 30 minutes
who are run for 30 minutes every day
this week to try to lose some fat here's
what's gonna happen to as a petite woman
when you increase your cardio suddenly
you will be really saying first of all
you could release some stress hormones
from that just increasing your regimen
from 0 to 100 but the most important
thing is you're gonna change your
appetite hormones and how much hormone
is released in regards to your appetite
so if you're doing a lot of cardio
expending a lot more calories in that
fashion your body is going to tell you
to eat more because it's hungry and it's
not used to it and it wants to replenish
those like a gym store is it wants to
replenish that energy source so if you
do a lot of cardio out of nowhere as a
petite woman you are going to get very
very hungry and in that case you may end
up just having to give in your hunger
eat back all the calories which starts
this kind of negative cycle of trying to
burn off the calories that we eat which
is a really unhealthy relationship to
have with food because it's just not
it's not fair to do it yourself to eat
food and then feel like you need to burn
off that number on the treadmill so the
first part is it's gonna throw off your
appetite the second part is cardio is by
nature catabolic so it breaks down
muscle tissue also fat but if you are
doing lots and lots of cardio you are
going to be breaking down your muscle
tissue which as a petite woman is again
the number one most important thing you
want to retain hold on to because it's
what's gonna be responsible for
increasing your metabolism so cardio is
a very very specific tool for petites it
should be used sparingly maybe once a
week you can do a 30 minute incline
walking session get your heart rate
about 65% of its maximal heart rate just
challenge yourself but overall cardio
can be really detrimental for
women it's better to take an approach
for your weightlifting doing cardio
sparingly maybe doing some hit training
and then we'll get into the nutrition
next so on the other end of the energy
balance equation we have our calories in
through nutrition and food and nutrition
does play a huge role in our metabolisms
so step three is to take a look at your
diet of course right we want to become
aware of what we're eating and be able
to analyze it and know what foods are
good that promote fat loss and it's the
best thing you can do for yourself is to
keep a food journal for three days and
don't analyze it until you finish your
three days don't try to change anything
when you get to your third day take a
look at it ask yourself how much of my
diet is processed foods you know a food
is processed if it has three or more
ingredients in it if you look on the
back of the box then it's a whole huge
list of ingredients if it has
complicated ingredient names that you
can't pronounce it's probably processed
the reason why you don't want to have a
diet that's mostly consists of processed
foods it's because it's going to slow
down your metabolism there's lots of
chemicals and preservatives in these
foods that add no nutritional value to
our diets and they just bog down the
metabolism what you want is
nutrient-dense foods the most the most
nutrient nutrient rich foods are in
single ingredient whole foods like
vegetables fruits minimally processed
sources of protein these are the types
of things that are going to do the most
on a cellular level for nutrient
absorption and metabolism boosting so
take a look at your food and make sure
that you know what processed food is and
you're doing what you can to add more
single ingredient foods less processed
foods along that same vein you should be
looking to get more protein in your diet
if you aren't already lifting to promote
muscle gain and kick up that metabolism
I would suggest and again this is not my
recommendation to you as an individual
because I don't know what your
parameters are for your diet but what I
eat is one gram of protein per pound of
body weight so I'll eat about 150 and
120 grams protein per day step 4
look at your hydration how much water
are you drinking in a day we don't only
have an energy balance we have a water
balance and that water balance is really
really important for regulating our body
and making sure we're not bloated if you
did your food journal and you found that
you were having you had a lot of
processed foods you're probably having a
lot of blow and water retention because
processed foods have a lot of sodium
salt in them so your hydration is really
important for not just fat loss but
getting rid of that bloat and just
feeling really light when you wake up in
the morning if you've ever woken up in
the morning and felt heavy and just
punching and you can't fit into your
favorite pants it is definitely related
to your water retention you're probably
not drinking enough water
I recommend drinking between 3 and 4
liters a day minimum and if you're
working out it's really important and if
you start doing this today and you try
it for seven days and you see the scale
dropped by three or four pounds that
means that you were dehydrated and you
were holding on to water well you know
four hour long in the past so give this
a try and see if the scale changes and
if you drop some weight from that my
fifth tip and this is like a bonus tip
is when you do your cardio sessions if
you do one a week or if you do a hit
session but his session should be on
Sunday but if you do a low intensity
steady-state cardio session where you're
walking on an incline
I would suggest I goes to the end of
your weight training session to maximize
the fat burning potential of your body
the reason why is because after a
lifting session your heart is already
elevated and then when you go to do your
cardio your heart will get even more
elevated which will help maximize the
fat loss so if you can I know you'll be
at the gym a little bit longer than you
normally would but it's great to be able
to maximize that while you're there and
just promote the fat loss right there
now I know that you guys value yourself
enough to really work on yourself and
look at your metabolism as a whole and
work on increasing your metabolism
time rather than falling for a quick fix
I think that with there's so many diets
intermittent fasting keto full30 all of
these if you're looking to kind of
completely change your life in 30 days
you can change your life but if you're
going to lose a lot of weight in 30 days
it's probably not healthy or sustainable
and so I urge you to take a look at
yourself and just tell yourself I value
myself enough to work on my metabolism
in a sustainable way over time so that
I'm in a position they might take three
months but at least three months from
now the times gonna pass anyways right
guys you might as well do it the
sustainable way three months from now I
feel good I'm not over exercising just
to keep up with this state that I that
you've achieved through a crash diet you
are eating lots of foods you're not
hungry you have muscle tone and your
metabolism is increase so you're eating
more than 2,000 calories a day but still
burning fat right and again we aren't
looking for just weight loss we're
looking for fat loss not we're out
looking for only weight loss fat loss is
what we're aiming for here so that you
can show your hard work the muscles that
you've made so I just want to encourage
you guys to always look at the
longer-term route because it's the
healthiest one and you will feel better
in the long run doing that rather than
looking for a crash diet or a quick fix
and lastly if this helped you in any way
please give it a thumbs up and subscribe
for more content so petite women my
course which teaches everything we just
talked about petite power program the
doors are currently open for enrollment
and there's an early bird price so if
you want to reach out and talk to me
about this program how you can increase
your metabolism as a petite how you can
learn how to love sweets how you should
eat as a petite that's all taught in
this three-month program with me as your
coach it's a group program it's super
fun and if you want in any more
information on that give a comment below
I will reach out to you and I hope this
was helpful for you guys if you have any
questions I'm always here and I hope to
chat with you guys soon bye